402

THE DEC'LINE AND FALL

C H A P. thirty days of grace were allowed before a Roman was delivered inte*-

XLIV.
*amr-...a

the power of his fellow—citizen. In this private prison, twelve ’

,οηῃεεε of rice were his daily food 3 he might be bound with a chain:

of fifteen pounds weight3 and his misery was thrice exposed in the
market-place‚ to solicit the compaffion of his friends and country-

' men. At the expiration of fixty days, the debt was discharged by

the loss of liberty or life ; the insolvent debtor was either put to
death, or sold in foreign ssavery beyond the Tyber:v but if several<
creditors were alike obstinate and unrelenting‚ they mightlegally
dismember his body, and satiate their revenge by this horrid par-
tition. The advocates for this savage law have infisted‚ that it
must strongly operate in deterring idleness ·and fraud fram contra&-
ing debts which they were unable to discharge; but experience
would dissipate this salutary terror, by proving, that no creditor
could be found to exa& this unprofitable penalty of life or limb. -
'As the manners of Rome were insensibly poliffied, the criminal=
code of the decemvirs was abolished by the humanity of accusers,
witneffesss and judges; and impunity became the consequence of
immoderate rigour. The Porciam and Valeriam laws prohibited the
magistrates from inflissi‘ng on a free citizen any capital, or evert
corporal puniihrnent3 and the obsolete statutes of blood were artfully‚

· and perhaps truly, ascribed to the spirit, not of patriciam, but of

A{bolidem or
oblivion of
penul laws.

regal, tyranny.

In the absence of pena] laws and the insufficicncy of civil actions,
the peace and justice of the city were imperfeffly- maintained by the
private jurisdiClion of the citizens. 'The malefactors„who repleniIh
our gaols, are the outcasts of society, and the crimes for which

they suffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance, poverty, and ” ζ

brutal appetite. For the perpetration of fimilar enormities, a vile
plebeiam might claim and abiise the sacred charafiler of a member of
the republic: but, on the proof or suspicion of guilt, the ssave, or

the

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
    
   
  
    

